Update nextjs-adapter documentation #563 (#570)
enonic/nextjs-adapter: README.md

## Installation

```bash
npm i --save @enonic/nextjs-adapter
```

## Usage

All functions and views are split into 4 categories by usage:

- `@enonic/nextjs-adapter` -- can be used both on server and client sides
- `@enonic/nextjs-adapter/server` -- can only be used on server side
- `@enonic/nextjs-adapter/client` -- can only be used on client side

> - `@enonic/nextjs-adapter/views/...` -- views folder, every view has own file and is default export

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `@enonic/nextjs-adapter/views/...` -- views folder, every view has its own file with a default export
```

    'custom-header': 'header-value',
}

const opts = {
    body,
    headers,
    method: 'POST',
    next: {
        revalidate: 60,
        tags: ['tag1', 'tag2'],
    }
};

const result = fetchFromApi(apiUrl, mapping, opts);
```

<br/>

#### <a id="fetch-paths-for-all-locales"></a>`fetchContentPathsForAllLocales(path: string, query?: string, count?: number) => Promise<ContentPathItem[]>`

> Loads all content paths for all locals. Generally used for static site generation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Loads all content paths for all locales. Generally used for static site generation.
```

| Argument | Description                                       |
|----------|---------------------------------------------------|
| `apiUrl` | Service API URL                                   |
| `query`  | Request and Next.js config options _(Optional)_ * |
| `count`  | Max result count _(Optional, defaults to 999)_    |

&ast; Default query gets up to `count` results, sorts them by `modifiedTime` and excludes following content types:

```
"base:shortcut", 
"portal:fragment", 
"portal:template-folder", 
"portal:page-template", 
"media:*"
```

Usage:

```tsx
import {fetchContentPathsForAllLocales} from '@enonic/nextjs-adapter/server';

const contentPaths = fetchContentPathsForLocale('/', 'custom graphql query', 1001);
```

<br/>

#### `fetchContentPathsForLocale(path: string, mapping: LocaleMapping, query?: string, count?: number) => Promise<ContentPathItem[]>`

Loads all content paths for the current locale. Generally used for static site generation.

> Used by the Used by the [fetchContentPathsForAllLocales()](#fetch-paths-for-all-locales)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Used by [fetchContentPathsForAllLocales()](#fetch-paths-for-all-locales)
```

| Argument | Type     | Description                  |
|----------|----------|------------------------------|
| `locale` | `String` | Set the initial locale value |

Usage:

```tsx
import {LocaleContextProvider} from '@enonic/nextjs-adapter/client';

<LocaleContextProvider locale="en"> ...child elements... </LocaleContextProvider>
```

<br/>

#### <a id="use-locale-context"></a>`useLocaleContext() => LocaleContextType`

Methods to access and modify current locale as well as localize static texts, where `LocaleContextType` is:

```tsx
interface LocaleContextType {
    dictionary: Dict
    locale: string
    localize: (key: string, ...args: any[]) => string
    setLocale: (locale: string) => Promise<Dict>
}
```

Usage:

```tsx
'use client';

import {useLocaleContext} from '@enonic/nextjs-adapter/client';

export default function ClientSideComponent() {
    const {locale, localize} = useLocaleContext();
    const localizedText = localize('text.key');
    // ...
}
```

<br/>

### <a id="multi-side"></a>Both client and server-side functions

They are available at `@enonic/nextjs-adapter`

<br/>

#### <a id="get-url"></a>`getUrl(url: string, meta: MetaData) => string`

> Converts a site-relative or absolute URL to the relative one for current viewer (Next.js/Enonic XP). Also takes care of locale if needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Converts a site-relative or absolute URL to relative one for current viewer (Next.js/Enonic XP). Also takes care of locale if needed.
```

Response type: List of [component definitions](#comp-def)

<br/>

### `UrlProcessor`

Helper singleton for processing URLs.

<br/>

#### <a id="process"></a>`static process(url: string, meta: MetaData, serverSide = false, isResource = false): string`

Processes the absolute URL to become relative for the current viewer, while keeping in mind Next.js assets and Enonic XP binary content
links

> > **NOTE:** There is a convenience aliases to this function called [getUrl()](#get-url) and [getAsset()](#get-asset)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **NOTE:** There are convenience aliases to this function called [getUrl()](#get-url) and [getAsset()](#get-asset)
```

    locales: string[],
    defaultLocale: string
}
```

<br/>

### `I18n` localization functions

These functions can be used both on server and client sides, but it is recommended to
use [native React.js context](#locale-context-provider) classes for client-side localization.

<br/>

#### `static I18n.setLocale(locale: string): Promise<Dict>`

Sets the current locale and returns the dictionary for it.

| Argument | Description          |
|----------|----------------------|
| `locale` | Locale id, i.e. `en` |

Usage:

```tsx
import {I18n} from '@enonic/nextjs-adapter';

const dict = await I18n.setLocale('en');
```

<a id="dict-type"></a>Response type:

```tsx
interface Dict {
    [key: string]: string
}
```

<br/>

#### `static I18n.localize(key: string, ...args: any[]): string`

Localizes the static text by key and replaces placeholders with provided arguments.

| Argument  | Description        |
|-----------|--------------------|
| `key`     | text key           |
| `...args` | template arguments |

Usage:

```tsx
import {I18n} from '@enonic/nextjs-adapter';

const localizedText = I18n.localize('text.key', 'value1', 'value2');
```

<br/>

#### `static I18n.getLocale(): string`

> Returns currently set locale.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns the current locale.
```

Usage:

```tsx
import {I18n} from '@enonic/nextjs-adapter';

const locale = I18n.getLocale();
```

<br/>

#### `static I18n.getDictionary(): Dict`

> Returns the dictionary for the currently set locale.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns dictionary for the current locale.
```
